# MEDS

## Matrix Equivalence Digital Signature

This repository procides the reference implentation of the PQC signature scheme MEDS
as submitted to the NIST PQC Signature standardization process.

The website accompanying the MEDS submission is [meds-pqc.org](https://www.meds-pqc.org/).

The submission document with the MEDS specificaiton can be found [here](https://www.meds-pqc.org/spec/MEDS-2023-05-31.pdf).

## C Reference Implementation

The reference implementation in directory `/ref` can be compiled
using the provided Makefile.

We provide three programs:
`test` to run at test of key generation, signing, and verification,
`bench` for benchmarling the implentation using several rund, and
`KAT_test` for computing known answert tests.

The test can be compiled and run by

```console
   make RUN
```

the benchmark using

```console
   make BENCH
```

and the KAT test using

```console
   make KAT
```

The default parameter set is the `toy` parameter set. Another parameter set can be selected using `PARAM`, e.g.:

```console
   make RUN P=ARAM=MEDS9923
```

A list of available parameter sets can be obtained by:

```console
   ./params.py -l
```

To run all targets, add `_ALL` to `RUN`, `BENCH`, and `KAT`, e.g.:

```console
   make RUN_ALL
```

When the code is compiled with `DEBUG` defined, exhaustive step-by-step debugging is produced and written to `stderr`.

The code package of the MEDS NIST submission with dedicated directories for each parameter set can be generated by

```console
   ./NIST.sh
```

## Sage Reference Implementation

The Sage reference implementation in directory `/sage-ref`
requires PyCryptodome for SHAKE.

Install PyCryptodome by:

```console
   sage --pip install PyCryptodome
```

A toy example of MEDS can be run using the following command:

```console
   ./meds.sage
```

A list of the MEDS instances for the parameter set can be obtained with the following command:

```console
   ./meds.sage -l
```

A specific parameter set can be run by:

```console
   ./meds.sage [PARAMETER SET]
```

The Sage version can be compared to the C version using the KAT files and the script `KAT_check.sage`.
There is a make target to easily generate and compare KAT files, e.g.:

```console
   make KAT PARAM=MEDS9923
   make KAT_ALL
```

### Requirements:

Tested with SageMath version 9.6.

The Python code files require Python version 3.8 or newer.

## Africacrypt 2023

The source code accompanying the Africacrypt 2023 paper:

- Tung Chou, Ruben Niederhagen, Edoardo Persichetti,
  Tovohery Hajatiana Randrianarisoa, Krijn Reijnders, Simona Samardjiska,
  and Monika Trimoska:
  *"Take your MEDS: Digital Signatures from Matrix Code Equivalence"*.
  Progress in Cryptology - AfricaCrypt 2023.
  Lecture Notes in Computer Science, Springer, 2023.

is in branch `Africacrypt`.

